Updated the SvelteKit Quickstart in the docs (#135)
teamhanko/docs: quickstarts/fullstack/sveltekit.mdx

---

## Create a SvelteKit application
Run the following command to [create a new SvelteKit application](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/creating-a-project):

<CodeGroup> 
```bash terminal
npx sv create project-name
```
</CodeGroup>

## Install `@teamhanko/hanko-elements`

Once you've initialized your SvelteKit app, installing hanko-elements provides you with access to the prebuilt components: `hanko-auth` and `hanko-profile`.

<CodeGroup> 
```bash npm
cd project-name
npm install @teamhanko/hanko-elements
```

```bash pnpm
cd project-name
pnpm add @teamhanko/hanko-elements
```

```bash bun
cd project-name
bun add @teamhanko/hanko-elements
```

```bash yarn
cd project-name
yarn add @teamhanko/hanko-elements
```
</CodeGroup>

## Setup your Hanko project
Go to the [Hanko console](https://cloud.hanko.io/) and [create a project for this application.](/setup-hanko-cloud)

<Note>
  During creation make sure to input the URL you will be developing on as the `APP URL`.\
  (Most likely http://localhost:5173/) 
</Note>

## Add your Hanko API URL

Retrieve your API URL from the [Hanko console](https://cloud.hanko.io/), and paste this in a `.env` file.

> ```sh .env.local
> NEXT_PUBLIC_HANKO_API_URL=https://f4****-4802-49ad-8e0b-3d3****ab32.hanko.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh .env
PUBLIC_HANKO_API_URL=https://f4****-4802-49ad-8e0b-3d3****ab32.hanko.io
```

<hanko-auth on:onSessionCreated={redirectAfterLogin} />
```

Now simply import the component you just created into any page.

```jsx routes/+page.svelte
<script>
    import HankoAuth from "../components/HankoAuth.svelte";
</script>

<div>
    <HankoAuth/>
</div>
```

By now, your sign-up and sign-in features should be working. You should see an interface similar to this 👇

<Frame>
<img src="/images/fullstack-guide/next-one.png" alt="sign up" width="500" style={{ borderRadius: '0.5rem' }}/>
</Frame>

### Hanko profile

> After setting up the HankoAuth let's Set up the `HankoProfile.jsx` file to create an interface where users can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After setting up the HankoAuth let's set up the `HankoProfile.jsx` file to create an interface where users can
```

    import { env } from "$env/dynamic/public";
    const hankoApi = env.PUBLIC_HANKO_API_URL;
  
    const hanko = new Hanko(hankoApi);
    const logout = () => {
      hanko.logout().catch((error) => {
        //Handle Error
      });
      goto("/")//Path to redirect the user to
    };
</script>
  
<button on:click={logout}>Logout</button>
```

## Customize component styles

You can customize the appearance of `hanko-auth` and `hanko-profile` components using CSS variables and parts. Refer to our [customization guide](/guides/hanko-elements/customize-appearance).

## Securing routes

To verify the session token in your SvelteKit application, we're using the [session/validate API request](/api-reference/public/session-management/validate-a-session). By checking for a valid session token this middleware will ensure secure access to specific routes, like `/dashboard` and `/protected`.\
The middleware hook extracts and verifies the session token, and redirect unauthorized users back to the home or login page.

For more info on middlewares / hooks in SvelteKit and where to put the `hooks.server.ts` file,\
please refer to [SvelteKid Hooks](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/hooks).

> What happens here is that during each RequestEvent the handle function will be called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What happens here is that during each request the handle function will be called.
```

> It then authenticates the user and redirects the user back if you are on a private route and not verified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It then verifies the session token and redirects the user back if he is on a private route and the session token is not valid.
```
